Theodore Nguyen
704-156-701

CS35L Fall 2014 Week 8 Homework: Reproducing under EC2; vulnerability review

Part 1

To reproduce the web server crash on amazon EC2, I basically did the same
thing I did on the seasnet server. 

I downloaded the sthttpd-2.26.4.tar.gz from the website, unpacked it, patched
it manually, configured it, ran make, and then ran thttpd on a port; then I
ran wget on the same port I ran thttpd on with an excessive number of A's to
crash the server. 

Part 2

Listed from (1) to (5), where (1) is the most threatening vulnerability, while
(5) is the least threatening

(1) Vulnerability Note VU#505120
Microsoft Secure Channel (Schannel) vulnerable to remote code execution via
specially crafted packets

The top 3 vulnerabilities are pretty much very close to each other in terms of
threatening magnitude, so these top three might be exchanged with one another.
The Schannel exploit takes the cake for the most threatening mainly because a
majority of computer devices and PCs today do still operate on the Microsoft
Windows operating system, and since this affects basically all Windows
devices, this is the most threatening. The flaw allows a remote attacker to
execute arbitrary code and completely compromise vulnerable systems. Luckily,
there is a patch for the vulnerability - but Windows 2000 and XP (which, by
the way, is still running on 25% of computers today) do not have a supported
patch, and therefore remain vulnerable. The fact that a large majority devices
today, whether they be personal or business PCs, 
(since most devices are still Windows) can be compromised makes this the most
threatening vulnerability.


(2) Vulnerability Note VU#252743
GNU Bash shell executes commands in exported functions in environment
variables

This is the next most serious problem mainly for the number of corporations
and businesses affected that all use the GNU Bash shell, UNIX-like operating
systems, and linux distributions. The sheer magnitude of the amount of people
affected is a high contributor to the threat level of this vulnerability. This
edges out of heartbleed vulnerability mainly because the remote attacker can
execute arbitrary code on the compromised system (but only at the level of the
calling application). Luckily, there is a patch for the vulnerability

 
(3) Vulnerability Note VU#720951
OpenSSL TLS heartbeat extension read overflow discloses sensitive information

The commercial "heartbleed" vulnerability swept quite a lot of vendors,
generally those that had consumers create a username and password, etc. Again,
this is ranked high alot due to the sheer magnitude of how many people were
affected and how many keys and how much sensitive information was compromised
due to a remote attacker. The attacker can use the information to decrypt more
information or perform attacks. This problem also has a patch for it. The main
reason why this is ranked lower than the GNU bash shell vulnerability is that
the attacker cannot execute arbitrary code on the system, meaning he may have
less control and exploits to use.


(4) Vulnerability Note VU#213119
Microsoft Windows Kerberos Key Distribution Center (KDC) fails to properly
validate Privilege Attribute Certificate (PAC) signature

This is the 2nd to least threatening vulnerability, but when in comparison to
least threatening, this one is PRETTY threatening. A domain user can forge
information in the Priviledge Attribute Certificate to gain administrative
priviledges since the KDC does not verify the password correctly. Because of
this, the domain user can gain full control and compromise of every computer
on the domain, which is a pretty big deal. The main reason this isn't ranked
higher is that it must be executed by a user ALREADY ON THE DOMAIN - that is,
a remote attacker not already in the domain cannot use the exploit to create
an user it can use with admin priviledges. If that were the case, then this
easily could be the most threatening vulnerability. Also, since theres a patch
addressing this, it has been solved, so it makes it less vulnerable. 



(5) Vulnerability Note VU#447516
Linksys SMART WiFi firmware contains multiple vulnerabilities

This is without a doubt the least threatening vulnerability for several
reasons. First of all the gist of the vulnerability is that the remote attacker can
get MD5 hash of the admin password, as well as read and modify sensitive
information on the router. Sure, the fact that a remote attacker can do this
from anywhere makes it a little more threatening; however, the attacker can't do
much with the MD5 hash unless the administrator has a very simple password,
since the MD5 is a one-way hash - it cannot be decrypted. At worst, the
attacker can read sensitive information and modify it, which
isn't that deleterious, espically when its only confined to the router.
The problem is also extremely fixable, as Linksys has
provided several firmware updates to block this vulnerability. Also, Linksys
isn't the only router provider in the world (although they are a popular one),
also attributing to the fact that this is the least serious vulnerability.
